[THEME MUSIC]
>> My name is Greg Braden, and
I'd like to welcome you to this
very special presentation
of "Missing Links,"
the deep truth of our origin,
history, destiny, and fate.
In our last episode,
we identified
the science-based
discovery of a field
of energy, a real-life
matrix, that functions
in three very precise ways.
This matrix, number
one, it's the container
for the universe itself
and for all things that
can happen in the universe.
Number two, it's the
bridge between our inner
and our outer worlds.
Everything that happens from
within, our thoughts, feelings,
emotions, and beliefs
are conveyed to the world
beyond our bodies
through this field.
And number three, the mirror--
the mirror-- this field
is a mirror in
the world for what
we claim to be true in
our deepest, sometimes
subconscious beliefs.
Well, scientists are no
longer asking the question,
are we connected?
The field tells us that we are.
Now the question is, how
deeply are we connected?
How much influence do we
really have in the world
through this field?
Well, there are two very
futuristic scientific
experiments that take us
light years beyond anything
that we believed in science
as accepted in the past.
And I want to share
those with you.
What they are showing,
however, has opened the door
to a possibility that modern
science is now struggling with.
So let's take a look at
these two experiments.
The first one was published
in the Russian bulletin
of the Lebedev Physics
Institute in 1992.
And the experiment begins
with something seemingly very
innocent-- a glass vessel,
a vase, where all of the air
has been completely drawn
out of this vessel to create
what we call a vacuum.
So a vacuum implies that
this vessel is empty,
but we know it's not completely
empty, because there are still
little photons of light
that remain in this vessel.
And scientists know this.
So the question now is,
where are those photons?
They want to get a baseline and
see where the photons are right
now.
So the first part
of this experiment,
they draw the air
out of the vessel,
and then they measure
where these photons
are in the vessel.
Are they all piled
up on the bottom?
Or are they floating
around the inside?
Or are they all
stuck to the edges?
And what they found
was no surprise.
The vessel showed that these
photons are completely random.
They're completely random.
And by the way, these
are the same kinds
of photons, the
particles of matter,
that make up the
atom itself that we
described in the last episode.
So we're dealing with
these fundamental particles
of the stuff that
our world is made of.
And that's important.
So the scientists found
that the distribution
of the photons in this vessel
was completely random--
no surprise.
That's what they expected.
The next piece of
this experiment
is where, while the
experiment is fascinating,
what I find really
fascinating is
the thinking of
the scientists that
made the experiment possible.
For a scientist trained in
the scientific method based
upon all of those
false assumptions
that we saw earlier in this
program, those assumptions
of separation,
for the scientists
to move out of that
box of thinking
and begin asking
new questions like,
what if our
assumptions are wrong?
What would that tell
us about our world?
That's where it gets
really interesting,
and that's what the next part
of this experiment is all about.
Because what the scientists
did was, into the vessel
that had completely
random photons,
they put human DNA-- human DNA.
Because they wanted
to see if human DNA
has an effect on the photons.
And before I go
any further, I just
would invite you to think
about what they're asking.
Photons are the stuff
this world is made of.
DNA is the stuff we're made of.
And scientists are
asking in the laboratory,
does this stuff
we're made of have
an effect on this stuff
our world is made of?
This is where it starts to
sound like science fiction,
or at least something that
an advanced yogi would
be working with.
But these are in a bonafide
scientific laboratory,
these questions.
This is where
they're being asked.
So here's what they did.
They took human DNA, and they
placed it inside the vessel.
And then they measured the DNA
again to see what would happen.
And they measured the photons
And the results
of this experiment
changed the way we had
been conditioned to think
about ourselves and the world.
Because the photons went from
being completely random when
they were first measured, and in
the presence of the human DNA,
the photons are
no longer random.
They are ordered.
They followed precisely
the geometry of the DNA.
The DNA was having a direct
effect on the photons.
The stuff we're made of
is having a direct effect
on the stuff our world is made
of, just like some of our most
ancient and cherished indigenous
and spiritual traditions have
always told us, that we
are connected to the world.
So this is the first experiment.
Human DNA has a
measurable effect
on the stuff our
world is made of.
And I want you to see the
way the scientists responded
to this.
So I'm going to read
this to you directly.
In the journal "Nanobiology,"
and this was published in 1995,
the way the scientists
describe this,
they said that the photons
were described as behaving--
and this is a
quote-- "surprisingly
and counterintuitively"--
counterintuitively.
It's counterintuitive because
the scientific thinking
is that everything is
separate from everything else
and there is no stuff
to convey any effect
from the DNA to the matter.
That's why it's
counterintuitive to the science.
But the next piece is what I
find particularly interesting.
I'm going to invite you
to listen to the language.
It says, "We are forced to
accept the possibility"--
they're saying that
they are forced.
They're not saying "it looks
like," or "it appears,"
or "this is what we've found."
They're saying "we are forced
to accept the possibility
that some new field of energy
is being excited by the DNA."
Well, I think we know
it's not a new field.
It's a field that's
been around a long time.
It's simply that we are just
now recognizing that field
and what it means to us.
So the summary of
this second experiment
is that science now confirms
that human DNA influences
the stuff our world is
made of through the photons
by communicating directly
through the field.
That's a big piece.
But now let me go to
the second experiment.
This experiment was published
in the "Journal of Scientific
Exploration" in 1994.
It begins with human
DNA once again.
And this is a very
precise kind of human DNA.
It comes from umbilical
cords of newborns,
because that DNA is what's
called very pristine DNA.
It hasn't been eroded
over time, as happens
as we mature in life.
So it's a very
pristine kind of DNA.
And the DNA is
isolated in one vessel,
and that is encased
in another vessel
to make sure that there are
no other influences that
are happening from outside
to influence the DNA.
So here is the experiment.
This very unique
DNA is now placed
within the range of the
field of a human heart
that we described in
an earlier episode.
Every human heart,
if you recall,
has a field of
energy that extends
beyond the physical heart
for a distance between five
to eight feet.
And that field is an
electrical and a magnetic field
that we can measure with
conventional equipment.
So the question is,
through that field,
is the DNA influenced by the
emotions of another person?
Can our emotions
actually influence
the DNA in our bodies?
Before I tell you
the experiment,
let me just share a little bit
about why this is important.
Human DNA, when it
is in our cells,
it is coiled in very
specific kinds of ways.
And what scientists
have found is
that in the presence
of certain emotions
that we would call
negative emotions--
and I don't really
like to use that term,
but I'm going to use it to be
clear what we're talking about.
So when we talk about
emotions, for example,
of anger or hate or jealousy
or rage or frustration, those
that we would typically
consider as negative emotions,
they have an effect on
the DNA within our bodies.
And the effect is that in the
presence of those emotions,
the DNA is actually--
coil is tightened.
It's tightened
like a little knot.
And that's important,
because when
it is tightened in this way,
the DNA does not express
to its fullest capacity.
So negative emotions
tighten the coil
and prevent the
DNA from expressing
the fullest capacity of whatever
it is that it is expressing.
Whether it's our immune response
or our anti-aging hormones
or whatever it is, the DNA
simply cannot do its full
complement of what
it's designed to do.
So from this description,
you can probably
imagine what the
positive emotions do.
Positive emotions
actually loosen the DNA.
They relax the DNA.
So these are the emotions
of compassion, gratitude,
appreciation, for example.
Those kinds of emotions actually
relax the DNA within our bodies
and allow that
fullest expression.
Knowing this, the
scientists wanted
to see what effect human
emotion from one person
would have upon DNA that's
not in that person's body,
but it's in this special
container that was designed.
So that's the experiment.
Here's what they found.
The human DNA was isolated.
And in the presence of
the positive emotions,
in the presence of the
gratitude, appreciation, love,
and compassion,
what happened was
the DNA actually began to
relax, and it relaxed so much
that it began to unwind itself.
The two coils began to
unwind, as if the DNA
was about to replicate itself
and produce a new strand of DNA
in the presence of
positive emotion.
All that was happening was
gratitude, appreciation, care,
compassion, and the
DNA was responding
in such a positive manner
that the DNA acted, again,
as if it was about
to reproduce itself
in a new, vitalized,
healed state.
So this is something that
scientists were not expecting.
So now we've seen the results
of these two experiments.
In the presence of the positive
emotion, the DNA is relaxed.
In the presence of
negative emotions,
such as anger, hate,
jealousy, rage,
the DNA was tightened
like a little knot.
It coiled up very, very tightly.
And this is telling the
scientists something
that we've never seen
demonstrated under laboratory
conditions before.
Anecdotally, it may
have been suspected.
But this is the first time
in a laboratory environment
that we could actually see human
emotion, intentionally created
by those trained to create
very specific kinds and very
specific qualities of emotion,
that human emotion changed
the shape of the DNA.
It changed the
ability of the DNA
to fully express the full
complement of what it is,
whatever that DNA is expressing.
So I'm going to share
with you now directly.
I want you to hear from
the scientists, quote,
"Individuals trained in feelings
of deep love and appreciation
were able to
intentionally change
the shape of the DNA
in their bodies."
And they went on to say
that "human emotion produces
effects which defy
conventional laws of physics."
Now, what are those
results saying to us?
It's saying that when we embrace
the deepest truth, the power
that is available to us,
when we tap the fullest
potential that we
have available to us,
that we are not bound by the
conventional laws of physics,
at least as we have known
those laws in the past.
Maybe the laws of physics
are going to change.
But the fact that we have the
ability to feel a certain way,
to create a certain
emotion in our body
and literally change
the DNA within us
and, in the case of experiment,
that was not even part of us,
that tells a new story.
And here's what this
story is all about.
So I'm going to invite you
now to think about these two
experiments.
The first experiment,
human emotion
changes the shape of the
DNA, and you saw that.
The second experiment is that
DNA changes physical matter.
The DNA influenced the photons
that were in the vessel.
If you take out the middle
piece, human emotion changes
DNA, DNA changes matter, if
you take out the overlapping
statements of DNA, what we find
is this-- human emotion changes
matter.
Human emotion influences the
stuff our world is made of.
And as we learn to embrace
the qualities of feeling
and emotion that change
the DNA in our bodies,
not only does it influence
the healing in our own bodies,
as you'll see in
future episodes,
not only does it influence
the DNA in additional ways,
as you're going to see
in future episodes,
it literally taps, it
influences the stuff
our world is made of in ways
that sound superhuman, that
sounds like something
that a yogi studying
in a monastery on a
high mountaintop half
a world away for a lifetime
would be able to do.
But the beauty of
these experiments
is that we don't
have to do that.
We don't have to leave
everything that we love
and all the people
and the experiences
and live in a monastery
on the mountaintop
for a lifetime or two to embrace
what these technologies are all
about.
And this is precisely
what we are talking about.
This is a technology.
It is an internal
technology that
is available to every
human if we choose
to embrace it in our lives.
So what have we learned
from these experiments?
We now know, science
confirms, human emotion
influences the field
that connects all things
and the stuff our
world is made of.
When we study physics,
traditional physics,
one of the great mysteries of
the physics as we know it today
has to do with the outcome
of yet another experiment.
This experiment was
first performed in 1909,
at the turn of the 20th century.
And at that time, the
scientists didn't know what
to make of this experiment.
Prior to 1909, physics
was mechanistic.
They're called Newtonian
physics, classical physics.
It was all about
things bumping up
against other things, electrons
and atoms and neutrons.
But the new physics that
was developing at the time
through the theories
that were being developed
in the late 1800s
and early 1900s,
that physics said that
there's something else that's
happening that on the level
of things that are very small
and the level of things that are
very huge, in terms of galaxies
and in terms of very,
very small particles,
there's another
physics that's working.
That's the quantum physics.
And the experiment
that I'm talking about
was known as the very,
very famous double slit
experiment, performed in 1909.
And the mystery is
because the result
of the double-slit
experiment actually
is determined by
whether or not someone
is watching the experiment, OK?
Let me say that again.
Let me tell you how
this experiment works.
The double-slit experiment
begins as a beam of photons.
And you see a common theme here.
We're talking about photons.
They are the elementary
stuff that atoms are made of,
the stuff our world
is made of you.
You and I are made of photons.
Our world is made of photons.
So it's not surprising that
they would be used a lot
throughout these experiments.
So in the double-slit
experiment, a beam of light,
photons, particles of light,
was fired from a device.
And it was fired at a barrier.
And the barrier had two
slits on either side.
And what scientists
expected to see
was that once the
light hit the barrier,
it would go through
both of the slits,
and we would be able to
see the patterns that
was creating in a very
expected way on the other side.
Well, this is where
the mystery comes in.
Because what scientists
found is that when
the light hit the barrier
and it went through
and it was being observed--
now, the observer
could be another human.
It could be a
device watching it.
But somehow, the
observation actually
determined how those particles
of light would behave.
When no one and
nothing was observing,
the particles would
behave in one way.
When someone or a
gadget was recording,
the particles would
behave in another way.
And here's the difference.
Under one set of
circumstances, the particles
remained particles.
Under another set
of circumstances,
the particles became waves.
So now we're
talking on a quantum
level about the difference
between the particles
and waves.
It's the same energy expressing
in very, very different forms.
Now, this is going to
be really important,
because what we
have just done is
we've talked about
the ability of humans
to create the emotion
that influences their DNA
and influences the stuff
our world is made of.
And now we're talking about
the stuff our world is
made of behaves differently--
sometimes it's a particle,
sometimes it's a wave--
depending on whether or not
it's being observed.
The implications for healing,
the implications for prayer,
the implications
for remote healing
within the context
of these discoveries
take on a whole new meaning.
And if you think about
this, we know scientifically
that prayer has an effect.
Many studies have been
done, and the question
was, how could a prayer in
one person's living room
for their loved one, their son
or their daughter, their mother
or father in a battlefield of
Afghanistan half a world away,
how could the prayer have any
influence on the other side
of the planet?
And yet it does statistically.
What the studies
were showing was
that people fared better
when they were ill
or when they
underwent a surgery.
Those that had people praying
for them fared better,
recovered faster, had less
trauma, less bleeding,
less swelling, less bruising
than those that did not.
These are very, very
well documented studies.
So I'm not going to spend
a lot of time on those.
The question is,
why does it happen?
How does it happen?
That's what we're
spending time on.
Because we're going to take
us now to the next level.
We're going to take it
even further than we
have in the past.
Because it begins
to tie into what
we have called
"miracles" in the past.
A miracle is only a miracle
until we understand the science
underlying what's happening.
Then it becomes a technology.
And it's something that we
all have available to us.
Although the observer
effect was first
documented during the first
double-slit experiments
early in the 20th century.
As happens so often with these
very important experiments,
this particular experiment was
repeated later in the century,
using even better
equipment with new ideas
and new understandings.
And I'd like to share with you
precisely the exact language
of what the scientists at the
Weitzman Research Institute
discovered when they repeated
the double-slit experiment.
1998, scientific headlines
all over the world
reported this experiment.
And they read, and
this is a quote,
"researchers at the Weitzman
Institute of Science conducted
a highly controlled experiment
demonstrating how a beam
of electrons"-- so these
are quantum particles--
a beam of electrons "is affected
by the act of being observed."
But even beyond that--
that observation effect
was noted early in the century.
But listen to this.
Listen to the new portion
of this discovery.
The scientists said, quote,
"the experiment revealed
that the greater the
amount of watching,
the greater the observer's
influence on what actually
takes place," and of quote.
And this was actually reported
in a very prestigious journal
"Nature," February 26, 1998,
volume 391, if you want
to look it up for yourself.
This experiment is telling
us that not only are we
intimately enmeshed
with the world around us
and with the world within us,
but the more focus, the greater
our focus, the greater the
attention that we give,
specifically something
that's happening
in our lives, the
greater the effect.
But I think this is interesting,
because we already knew this
if we followed the
principles in some
of our most ancient, again, and
cherished spiritual traditions.
For example, in the Sutra
from the Mahayana Buddhist
traditions, there
is a statement that
essentially summarizes what
the Weitzman experience just
told us.
And that statement says,
quote, "Reality exists only
where the mind creates
a focus." "Reality
exists only where the
mind creates a focus."
So the ancient Buddhist
traditions, they
didn't have the
science, but they sure
understood the principle.
They understood the mechanism.
Where we create this
convergence of thought, feeling,
and emotion, where
we create that focus,
that is us observing
the world around us.
And it is that
experience and the fact
that that experience has such
a powerful effect in our lives
that actually made
Albert Einstein-- it
was making him crazy.
This is the piece of the
puzzle that Einstein was never
able to solve.
He began early in
the 20th century
with his theories of
relativity, and he was always
searching for a unified
theory, a unified field theory.
And here's what I mean by that.
A unified field theory
is where a scientist,
like Albert Einstein, creates a
single story that incorporates
all of the facets of nature
and physics and mathematics
into one coherent story
of us, our universe,
and our relationship to it.
The unified field theory
has been an elusive theory.
It has yet to be discovered.
And the world
supported Einstein,
thinking that this is the
man-- if anyone could do it,
he could do it.
Here's where Einstein got stuck.
And he actually admitted
this on his deathbed
in the early 1950s.
He got stuck because he did not
like the idea that we are so
intimately connected
with our universe
that we could have any
influence whatsoever
on the universe in one place
with us being in another place.
And as I mentioned earlier,
he actually had a name.
He called this "spooky
action at a distance."
action at a distance,"
because to him, it was spooky.
One of the things I find
particularly fascinating
is that although
Einstein was working
with the same mathematics
and the same equations
as his friends and colleagues,
he came to the conclusion
that we are separate
from one another
and that we are separate
from the universe
and that we can be
observers in the universe.
However, a dear
friend and colleague
of Albert Einstein's a man that
lived much longer than Einstein
and had a tremendously
powerful influence in quantum
physics at Princeton
University and our world today
was Professor John Wheeler.
He passed away just
a few years ago.
So John Wheeler and Albert
Einstein-- they were friends,
they were colleagues looking
at the same equations,
the same math, drawing
vastly different conclusions.
So while Einstein
believed that we're
separate and have no effect,
Wheeler said just the opposite.
And I want to share with you
John Wheeler's exact words
just so you can hear his
process and his thinking
and how passionate
he was about this.
John Wheeler said we had
this old idea that there is
a universe out there somewhere.
And here's man, what he
called the observer, safely
protected from the
universe by what he called
a six-inch slab of plate glass.
OK, so it's not
really plate glass,
but that is his way
of saying that there
is something between us
and the universe out there.
But he continues.
He said, now we learn that
to even observe an electron,
we have to shatter
that plate glass.
And listen to what he said.
He said, so the old
word "observer" simply
has to be crossed off the books.
He said, there are no observers.
We must put in the new word
"participator"-- no observers,
only participators.
So what does this mean?
I'm going to just
very, very quickly
encapsulate this idea of why
it's so powerful in our lives.
Because what John
Wheeler has just said to
us tells us that we will never
find the smallest particle
of matter, no matter how many
atoms and quantum particles
that we smash into
one another and break
into a bajillion pieces looking
for smaller smaller pieces.
And we will never find
the edge of the universe,
no matter how far we look
to the edge of the cosmos
and how technologically
sophisticated our equipment is.
And here's the reason why.
What John Wheeler
just said to us
is that every place that we look
into the universe, every place
that we look into nature with
the expectation that something
is there for us to
see, the expectation
is the principle that will put
something there for us to see.
So no matter how far, no matter
how deep, as long as we're
looking, the act of looking
is the act of creation
that makes sure there
will always be something
there for us to see.
So what we've just witnessed are
the science-based experiments
and the real-life application
of these experiments
that not only confirm we are
deeply connected to the world,
but also confirm that that
connection is so fundamental it
begins at the very core of
our existence with our DNA,
where we interact with
life and reality itself.
In our next episode, let's
take this one step further.
We'll discover that the
source of our connection
is directly linked to the
origin of the DNA in our bodies.
And that's what sets us
apart from all other life.
Thank you for joining me
for this program today.
And be sure to tune in
for our next all-new
episode of "Missing Links,"
the deep truth of our origin,
history, destiny, and fate.
[THEME MUSIC]